# AirBnB-Project-R-NLP
Project analyzing AirBnB listing data in NYC with a decison tree model and NLP techniques using R

  I started the challenge by building an understanding of the data and business question at hand. Then, I moved on to data preparation and feature engineering. During model selection, I built a decision tree model and sought to incorporate NLP techniques into the findings. Once the model was finalized and trained, it was validated and tested on additional data. The strength of the findings was bolstered by consistent accuracy and precision measurements through all stages of the process.

Outliers were trimmed from the data before features were engineered. Any listing that had no availability in the past year was removed, since vacancy could not confidently be measured. Listings with night minimums over 120 were considered outliers and trimmed because this proved to be out of the ordinary value for AirBnB based on my research. Any listing that had a minimum night requirement that was larger than the availability for the year was also removed since users would not be able to book a listing with those parameters. Listings with no reviews were also removed because it would be a challenge to confidently infer vacancy. Vacancy was measured by creating the percent_booked column. Several assumptions were made to create this measurement. Number of reviews was converted to bookings by assuming a ratio of reviews to bookings; a measurement derived from domain research. An additional assumption was made about the number of reviews a listing received in the past 12 months if that listing had been on the platform for over a year. From there, bookings were related to number of nights booked, which was then used with the availability data to calculate vacancy as the feature percent_booked. Vacancy and price were measured to quantify their relationship, and the finding was that they are independent variables, having a Pearson correlation coefficient of -0.07. To validate this claim, all assumptions that were made to infer vacancy were removed and vacancy was recalculated. The resulting Pearson coefficient was -0.06. The recalculation verified that price and vacancy are largely independent, and the analysis proceeded by predicting based on price alone.

The data was classified into four groups, according to the IQR of the listing price data. The data was then split up into training, validation and test. Decision tree models were built using features present in the original data set, including room_type, neighbourhood_group and number_of_reviews. Once accuracy was maximized with these features, a term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) analysis was conducted on the listing name text data. Features from the tf-idf were incorporated into the maximized decision tree model. No further gains were realized from the tf-idf features, so the natural language features were not included in the final model.

The final model used room_type and neighbourhood_group as features. The model was trained, validated and tested all with accuracies of about 50%. The resulting decision tree shows that to predict listing price, the listing being an entire home or apartment is most important, and a listing location in Manhattan is second most important. Entire homes and apartments in Manhattan tend to be most expensive, while shared apartments or rooms outside of Manhattan are the least expensive.
